Artifact Chosen: Project proposal document: United Kingdom National Biometric project (Design IT-415)  The original purpose of this document was to learn the process of designing and eventually implementing an advanced information system.

Justification: This project was reimplemention of UK ID CARD which has suffered security lacks in the past for not having good security features. The main pupose of this project was to create the application from the scratch with modern security features which includes Biometric access aunthentication and barcode scanner. The ideal boundaries for this National ID card (UKID) are to provide every U.K. citizen with identification credentials which leave no question to their benefit eligibility and legality. Ensuring personal data security with the best technology infrastructure with the only tracking belonging at points of use. Considerations for maintaining the confidentiality. The design tools was used for this project allowed for digital mockups of scheduled hardware, which helped my team able to eliminate and correct mistakes early in the design phase. The Agile methodology was clearly the correct choice during the testing phase. Numerous tests could be iterated multiple times when needed while being incorporated to the Work Breakdown Structure. Concepts reviewed in this document have applied principles of computing and other project management disciplines to identify solutions that include: 

Problem statement – This describes the exact problem to be addressed.

Significance – This section explains why all parties would benefit from this project.

Objectives – This is what is expected to be accomplished by the end of the project.

Deliverables – These are time sensitive actions that will need to be completed in order before moving on to the next deliverable.

Methodology – Different methodologies based upon the Systems development life cycle (SDLC).

Risks – These are the risk known before the project begins and include the risk that arise as the project progresses.

When I developed this project, it not only provided me with the knowledge of how and what this project entails, but also helped me develop my project management skills from a previous PM career.

Reflection/Articulation of Response: My project proposal and design document or final project are developed in the way I expected, although much more can be added. In the short eight weeks we have been in this project, I feel satisfied with the amount of detail. A short timeframe to plan, design and integrate all analysis and results into a polished artifact was one of my problems in the development of this paper.   If I had to approach this assignment once again, I'd work with other students who worked on this same project so that I could take suggestions away from them and find out what I may have overlooked. 

